simplify and update get started data versioning (#1438)
iterative/dvc.org: content/docs/tutorials/get-started/data-versioning.md

# Data Versioning

How cool would it be to make Git handle arbitraty large files and directories

> with the same performance as Git itself? Imagine you can do a `git clone` and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
with the same performance as with small code files? Imagine you can do a `git clone` and
```

see data files and ML model files in the workspace. Or do `git checkout` and
switch to a different version of a 100Gb size file in a less than a second?

The core part of DVC is a few commands that you can run along with Git to track
a large file, ML model or a directory. To start tracking a file or directory,
use `dvc add`:

<details>

### ⚙️ Expand to get an example dataset

> Having initialized a project in the previous section, get the data file we will

Reviewer: I feel like the link is more useful but no strong opinion.

Author: it makes it hard to support all these cross links - let's do them at the very end when it's more or less final

be using later like this:

```dvc
$ dvc get https://github.com/iterative/dataset-registry \
          get-started/data.xml -o data/data.xml
```

> We use the fancy `dvc get` command to jump ahead a bit and show how Git repo

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We use the fancy `dvc get` command to jump ahead a bit and show how DVC repos can
```

Author: Yeah, I want to emphasize that it is a Git repo in the first place.

becomes a source for datasets or models - what we call "data registry" or "model
registry". `dvc get` can download any <abbr>data artifact</abbr> tracked in a
<abbr>DVC repository</abbr>. It's like `wget`, but for DVC or Git repos. In this
case we download the latest version of the `data.xml` file from the
[dataset registry](https://github.com/iterative/dataset-registry) repo as the
data source.

</details>

```dvc
$ dvc add data/data.xml
```

DVC stores information about the added file (or a directory) in a special `.dvc`
file named `data/data.dvc`, a small text file with a human-readable
[format](/doc/user-guide/dvc-files-and-directories#dvc-files). This file can be
easily versioned like source code with Git, as a placeholder for the original

> data (which is listed in `.gitignore`):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
data (which gets listed in `.gitignore`):
```

<details>

> ### 💡Expand to see what happens under the hood

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### 💡 Expand to see what happens under the hood
```
Or avoid that emoji which as of now we use for external tool hints.

Author: >  for external tool hints.

not sure I got this part

thanks for the fix though

</details>

## Storing and sharing

You can upload DVC-tracked data or models with `dvc push`, so they're safely
stored [remotely](/doc/command-reference/remote). This also means they can be
retrieved on other environments later with `dvc pull`. First, we need to setup a

> storage.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
storage:
```

```dvc

> $ dvc remote add -d storage s3://my-bucket/dvc-storage

Reviewer: ```suggestion
$ dvc remote add storage s3://my-bucket/dvc-storage
```
Since the actual reproducible remote storage is in a details section below.

Author: nah, I think it's fine to have it in both places

<details>

> ### 💡 Expand to see what happens internally

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### 💡 Expand to see what happens under the hood
```
Like the previous section like this one?

Author: yep

`dvc push` copied the data <abbr>cached</abbr> locally to the remote storage we
set up earlier. You can check that the data has been stored in the DVC remote
with:

```dvc
$ ls -R /tmp/dvc-storage
/tmp/dvc-storage/a3:
04afb96060aad90176268345e10355
```

</details>

## Retrieving

Having DVC-tracked data stored remotely, it can be downloaded when needed in
other copies of this <abbr>project</abbr> with `dvc pull`. Usually, we run it
after `git clone` and `git pull`.

<details>

### ⚙️ Expand to explode 💣 the project

> If you've run `dvc push` successfully previously, you can just safely delete the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you've run `dvc push` successfully, you can just safely delete the
```

> If you've run `dvc push` successfully previously, you can just safely delete the
> cache `.dvc/cache` and `data/data.xml` to experiment with `dvc pull`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you've run `dvc push`, you can delete the
cache (`.dvc/cache`) and `data/data.xml` to experiment with `dvc pull`:
```

> [Sharing Data and Model Files](/doc/use-cases/sharing-data-and-model-files)
> for more on basic collaboration workflows.

## Making changes

When you make a change to a file or directory, run `dvc add` again to track

> changes:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the latest version:
```

```dvc
$ dvc add data/data.xml
```

<details>

> ### ⚙️ Expand to make some changes

Reviewer: Should this be placed before the dvc add cmd above?

Author: yep! I'll make the change

Author: done!

Reviewer: Thanks!

For the sake of simplicity let's just double the dataset artificially (and
pretend that we got more data from some external source):

```dvc
$ cp data/data.xml /tmp/data.xml
$ cat /tmp/data.xml >> data/data/xml
```

</details>

> Usually you would do `git commit` and `dvc push` to save the changes:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Usually you would also `git commit` and `dvc push` to save the changes:
```

Reviewer: Put inside details section though?

Author: I think it's fine to remind about Git importance from time to time

```dvc
$ git commit data/data.xml.dvc -m "Dataset updates"
$ dvc push
```

## Switching between versions

The regular worfklow is to use `git checkout` first to switch a branch, checkout

> a commit, checkout a revision of a file, and then run `dvc checkout` to sync

Reviewer: ```suggestion
a commit, or a revision of a file, and then run `dvc checkout` to sync
```

data:

```dvc
$ git checkout <...>
$ dvc checkout
```

<details>

### ⚙️ Expand to get the previous version of the dataset

Let's cleanup the previous artificial changes we made and get the previous :

```dvc
$ git checkout HEAD^1 data/data.xml.dvc
$ dvc checkout
```

Let's commit it (no need to do `dvc push` this time since the previous version
of this dataset was save before):

```dvc
$ git commit data/data.xml.dvc -m "Revert dataset updates"
```

</details>

> As you can see, DVC technically is not even a version control system. `.dvc`
> files content defines data file versions. Git itself serves as a version control
> system. DVC in turn is a tool to create these `.dvc` files, update them, and
> update DVC-tracked files in the workspace efficiently to match the `.dvc` files.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Please note that DVC is technically  not a version control system. `.dvc`
files content defines data file versions. Git itself serves as the version control
system. DVC in turn creates these `.dvc` files, updates them, and
synchronizes DVC-tracked data in the workspace efficiently to match them.
```

## Large datasets versioning

> There are cases when you process very large datasets, you need efficient (in
> terms of space and performance) mechanism to share a lot of data including
> different versions of it (you use some network attached storage? or some
> external large volume?). There is no goal to cover these cases in the Get
> Started, but we would recommend to read these sections next to learn more about
> advanced workflow:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In cases where you process very large datasets, you need an efficient
mechanism (in terms of space and performance) to share a lot of data, including
different versions of itself — do you use a network attached storage? or a
large external volume?).

While these cases are not covered in the Get
Started, we recommend reading the following sections next to learn more about
advanced workflows:
```

> - The shared extental cache idea described, for example,
>   [here](https://dvc.org/doc/use-cases/shared-development-server) can be applied
>   to store, version and access very efficienlty a lot of data on some (large)
>   shared volume.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- A shared [external cache](/doc/use-cases/shared-development-server) can be set up
  to store, version and access very a lot of data on a large
  shared volume efficiently.
```

- A quite advanced scenario is to track and version data directly on the remote

>   storage (e.g. S3). Check the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  storage (e.g. S3). Check out
```
